samples/bluetooth/ble_bms/README.rst, before:

.. _ble_bms_sample:

Bluetooth: Bond Management Service (BMS)
########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample demonstrates how to use the Bond Management Service (BMS).

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Hardware platform
     - PCA
     - SoftDevice
     - Board target
   * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
     - PCA10156
     - S115
     - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
   * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
     - PCA10156
     - S115
     - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
   * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
     - PCA10156
     - S115
     - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

Overview
********

When connected, the sample waits for the client's requests to perform any bond-deleting operation.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   During bonding, press the button to confirm that the passkey is correct.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.
   During bonding, press it to reject the passkey.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is advertising.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

.. _ble_bms_sample_testing:

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_bms/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Connect to the kit that runs this sample with a terminal emulator (for example, the `Serial Terminal app`_).
#. Reset the kit.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE BMS sample started`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_BMS`` message is printed.
#. Open `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.
#. Open the `Bluetooth Low Energy app`_ and select the connected device that is used for communication.
#. Connect to the device from the app.
   The device is advertising as ``nRF_BM_BMS``.
#. Bind with the device:

   a. Click the :guilabel:`Settings` button for the device in the app.
   #. Select :guilabel:`Pair`.
   #. Select :guilabel:`Keyboard and display` in the IO capabilities setting.
   #. Select :guilabel:`Perform Bonding`.
   #. Click :guilabel:`Pair`.

#. Check the logs to verify that the connection security is updated.
#. Disconnect the device in the app.
#. Reconnect again and verify that the connection security is updated automatically.
#. Verify that the Feature Characteristic of the Bond Management Service displays ``10 08 02``.
   This means that the following features are supported:

   * Deletion of the bonds for the current connection of the requesting device.
   * Deletion of all bonds on the Server with the Authorization Code.
   * Deletion of all bonds on the Server except the ones of the requesting device with the Authorization Code.

#. Write ``03`` to the Bond Management Service Control Point Characteristic.
   ``03`` is the command to delete the current bond.
#. Disconnect the device to trigger the bond deletion procedures.
#. Delete the bond information of the central device in the app:

   a. Click the :guilabel:`Settings` button for the device in the app.
   #. Click :guilabel:`Delete bond information`.

#. Reconnect the devices and verify that the connection security is not updated.
#. Bond both devices again.
#. Write ``06 41 42 43 44`` to the Bond Management Service Control Point Characteristic.
   ``06`` is the command to delete all bonds on the server, followed by the authorization code ``ABCD``.
#. Disconnect the device to trigger the bond deletion procedures.
#. Delete the bond information of the central device again.
#. Reconnect the devices again and verify that the connection security is not updated.

Commit message:

bluetooth: subsys: samples: clarify BMS auth code Kconfig scope
The BMS authorization code configuration has been aligned with its
actual usage by making it sample‑specific.
CONFIG_BLE_BMS_AUTHORIZATION_CODE (and BLE_BMS_AUTHORIZATION_CODE) was
previously defined at the BMS library level even though it is only
used by the BLE BMS sample. This change clarifies the configuration
scope and avoids confusion for users by ensuring the authorization
code setting is defined and documented where it is actually applied.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

samples/bluetooth/ble_bms/README.rst, after:

.. _ble_bms_sample:

Bluetooth: Bond Management Service (BMS)
########################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample demonstrates how to use the Bond Management Service (BMS).

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. list-table::
   :header-rows: 1

   * - Hardware platform
     - PCA
     - SoftDevice
     - Board target
   * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
     - PCA10156
     - S115
     - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
   * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
     - PCA10156
     - S115
     - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
   * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
     - PCA10156
     - S115
     - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

Overview
********

When connected, the sample waits for the client's requests to perform any bond-deleting operation.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   During bonding, press the button to confirm that the passkey is correct.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.
   During bonding, press it to reject the passkey.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is advertising.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

.. _ble_bms_sample_testing:

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_bms/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Connect to the kit that runs this sample with a terminal emulator (for example, the `Serial Terminal app`_).
#. Reset the kit.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE BMS sample started`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_BMS`` message is printed.
#. Open `nRF Connect for Desktop`_.
#. Open the `Bluetooth Low Energy app`_ and select the connected device that is used for communication.
#. Connect to the device from the app.
   The device is advertising as ``nRF_BM_BMS``.
#. Bind with the device:

   a. Click the :guilabel:`Settings` button for the device in the app.
   #. Select :guilabel:`Pair`.
   #. Select :guilabel:`Keyboard and display` in the IO capabilities setting.
   #. Select :guilabel:`Perform Bonding`.
   #. Click :guilabel:`Pair`.

#. Check the logs to verify that the connection security is updated.
#. Disconnect the device in the app.
#. Reconnect again and verify that the connection security is updated automatically.
#. Verify that the Feature Characteristic of the Bond Management Service displays ``10 08 02``.
   This means that the following features are supported:

   * Deletion of the bonds for the current connection of the requesting device.
   * Deletion of all bonds on the Server with the Authorization Code.
   * Deletion of all bonds on the Server except the ones of the requesting device with the Authorization Code.

#. Write ``03`` to the Bond Management Service Control Point Characteristic.
   ``03`` is the command to delete the current bond.
#. Disconnect the device to trigger the bond deletion procedures.
#. Delete the bond information of the central device in the app:

   a. Click the :guilabel:`Settings` button for the device in the app.
   #. Click :guilabel:`Delete bond information`.

#. Reconnect the devices and verify that the connection security is not updated.
#. Bond both devices again.
#. Write ``06 41 42 43 44`` to the Bond Management Service Control Point Characteristic.
   ``06`` is the command to delete all bonds on the server, followed by the authorization code ``ABCD`` (ASCII ``41 42 43 44``).
#. Disconnect the device to trigger the bond deletion procedures.
#. Delete the bond information of the central device again.
#. Reconnect the devices again and verify that the connection security is not updated.

.. note::
   The default authorization code ``ABCD`` (ASCII ``41 42 43 44``) is configurable through the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_BLE_BMS_AUTHORIZATION_CODE` Kconfig option. The maximum allowed length is :c:macro:`BLE_BMS_AUTH_CODE_MAX_LEN` (127 bytes), which comes from the BMS control point definition.

   Authorization codes up to **127 bytes** are supported. You may configure the code to any value within this limit as needed.

   If this security feature is not required, it can be enabled or disabled using the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SAMPLE_BLE_BMS_USE_AUTHORIZATION_CODE` Kconfig option. After changing the configuration, rebuild the sample and test how bond deletion behaves with or without an authorization code.
