samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_keyboard/README.rst, before:

.. _ble_hids_keyboard_sample:

Bluetooth: Human Interface Device Service Keyboard
##################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth LE HIDS keyboard sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`lib_ble_service_hids` to implement a keyboard input device that you can connect to your computer.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample uses the buttons on the development kit to simulate keys on a keyboard.

One button simulates the letter keys by generating letter keystrokes for a predefined string.
A second button simulates the Shift button and shows how to modify the letter keystrokes.
An LED displays the Caps Lock state, which can be modified by another connected keyboard.

This sample exposes the HID GATT Service.
It uses a report map for a generic keyboard.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   Sends one character of the predefined input ("hello\\n") to the computer.

   During bonding, press it to confirm that the passkey is correct.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Simulates the Shift key.

   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.

   During bonding, press it to reject the passkey.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is advertising.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

LED 3:
   Lit when Caps Lock is on.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_keyboard/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, using the `Serial Terminal app`_ or |VSC|, observe that the ``BLE HIDS Keyboard sample started.`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_HIDS_KB`` message is printed.
#. On your computer or mobile phone, open the Bluetooth settings and scan for advertising devices.
   Your device should be advertising as ``nRF_BM_HIDS_KB``.
   If the device is not advertising, you might need to use the :guilabel:`Reset Board` option in |VSC|.
#. :guilabel:`Connect` to your device.

   After having connected, your computer or mobile phone may attempt to pair or bond with your device in order to encrypt the link.

   You may be prompted to compare or enter a passkey as part of the authentication step.
   If prompted, provide the passkey from the terminal output, or confirm that the passkey is correct by pressing **Button 0** on the kit.

   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Peer connected``.
#. Observe that the device is detected as a keyboard.
#. Repeatedly press **Button 0** on the kit.
   Every button press sends one character of the test message "hello" to your device (the test message includes a carriage return).
#. Press **Button 1** and hold it while pressing **Button 0**.
   Observe that the next letter of the "hello" message appears as a capital letter.
   This is because **Button 1** simulates the Shift key.

Commit message:

samples: peripheral: bluetooth: Improved sample documentation
Added clarification on how to test the LPUARTE and UARTE samples,
including how to connect and read the signal outputs,
and which protocol settings are required for proper testing.

Added documentation on NUS and how to set up and test the service in
the two configurations (UARTE and LPUARTE) to make testing clearer,
and added notes for samples using Peer Manager and bonding explaining
the allow list option, how to enable or disable it, and what it means.

Added changes to the changelog

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_keyboard/README.rst, after:

.. _ble_hids_keyboard_sample:

Bluetooth: Human Interface Device Service Keyboard
##################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth LE HIDS keyboard sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`lib_ble_service_hids` to implement a keyboard input device that you can connect to your computer.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample uses the buttons on the development kit to simulate keys on a keyboard.

One button simulates the letter keys by generating letter keystrokes for a predefined string.
A second button simulates the Shift button and shows how to modify the letter keystrokes.
An LED displays the Caps Lock state, which can be modified by another connected keyboard.

This sample exposes the HID GATT Service.
It uses a report map for a generic keyboard.

Allow list
==========

By default, the sample does not use allow list advertising, which means that any nearby device can connect and bond with the device.
Bonded devices are stored in internal non-volatile memory (NVM) and are remembered across power cycles.

You can enable allow list advertising by setting
:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BLE_ADV_USE_ALLOW_LIST` to ``y`` in the base Kconfig fragment (:file:`prj.conf`).
When enabled, only previously bonded devices are allowed to reconnect, which allows faster reconnection and prevents unknown devices from connecting.

When allow list advertising is enabled and you want to add a new bonded device, existing bonds must first be deleted.
This can be done through user interaction, as described in the `User interface`_ section below.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   Sends one character of the predefined input ("hello\\n") to the computer.

   During bonding, press it to confirm that the passkey is correct.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Simulates the Shift key.

   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.

   During bonding, press it to reject the passkey.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is advertising.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

LED 3:
   Lit when Caps Lock is on.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_keyboard/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, using the `Serial Terminal app`_ or |VSC|, observe that the ``BLE HIDS Keyboard sample started.`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_HIDS_KB`` message is printed.
#. On your computer or mobile phone, open the Bluetooth settings and scan for advertising devices.
   Your device should be advertising as ``nRF_BM_HIDS_KB``.
   If the device is not advertising, you might need to use the :guilabel:`Reset Board` option in |VSC|.
#. :guilabel:`Connect` to your device.

   After having connected, your computer or mobile phone may attempt to pair or bond with your device in order to encrypt the link.

   You may be prompted to compare or enter a passkey as part of the authentication step.
   If prompted, provide the passkey from the terminal output, or confirm that the passkey is correct by pressing **Button 0** on the kit.

   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Peer connected``.
#. Observe that the device is detected as a keyboard.
#. Repeatedly press **Button 0** on the kit.
   Every button press sends one character of the test message "hello" to your device (the test message includes a carriage return).
#. Press **Button 1** and hold it while pressing **Button 0**.
   Observe that the next letter of the "hello" message appears as a capital letter.
   This is because **Button 1** simulates the Shift key.
