samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_mouse/README.rst, before:

.. _ble_hids_mouse_sample:

Bluetooth: Human Interface Device Service Mouse
###############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Peripheral HIDS mouse sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`lib_ble_service_hids` to implement a mouse input device that you can connect to your computer.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample uses the buttons on the development kit to simulate the movement of a mouse.
The four buttons simulate movement to the left, up, right, and down, respectively.
Mouse clicks are not simulated.

This sample exposes the HID GATT Service.
It uses a report map for a generic mouse.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   Simulate mouse movement to the left.

   During bonding, press it to confirm that the passkey is correct.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Simulate mouse movement upwards.

   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.

   During bonding, press it to reject the passkey.

Button 2:
   Simulate mouse movement to the right.

Button 3:
   Simulate mouse movement downwards.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is advertising.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_mouse/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample using a computer or a smartphone.

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, using the `Serial Terminal app`_ or |VSC|, observe that the ``BLE HIDS Mouse sample started.`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_HIDS_MOUSE`` message is printed.
#. On your computer or mobile phone, open the Bluetooth settings and scan for advertising devices.
   Your device should be advertising as ``nRF_BM_HIDS_MOUSE``.
   If the device is not advertising, you might need to use the :guilabel:`Reset Board` option in |VSC|.
#. :guilabel:`Connect` to your device.

   After having connected, your computer or mobile phone may attempt to pair or bond with your device in order to encrypt the link.

   You may be prompted to compare or enter a passkey as part of the authentication step.
   If prompted, provide the passkey from the terminal output, or confirm that the passkey is correct by pressing **Button 0** on the kit.

   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Peer connected``.
#. Observe that the device is detected as a mouse, and you can move the mouse by pressing the buttons on the DK.

Commit message:

samples: bluetooth: align LED and button behavior across samples
Align LED and button behavior across samples to follow a consistent
and predictable convention. The goal is to make samples easier to
understand, compare, and reuse by ensuring that common actions map to
the same LEDs and buttons wherever possible. All changes were tested
and verified on hardware, and all affected READMEs were updated to
reflect the new behavior.

For Bluetooth samples, a common LED and button layout is now used.
LED0 indicates that the device is initialized and running, while LED1
indicates an active Bluetooth connection. LED2 and LED3 are reserved
for sample‑specific functionality.

Button 0 is used for secure bonding confirmation on peripheral
(end device) samples, while on central samples it is used to disable
the allow list. Button 1 is used to reject secure bonding and delete
bonds on peripheral samples, while on central samples it disconnects
from the peer and deletes bonds. Button 2 and Button 3 are
sample‑specific.

Some samples require more than two custom interactions.
In those cases, Button 0 and Button 1 may be repurposed or extended
with additional behavior, but the overall convention is still
followed where possible.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

bluetooth

samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_mouse/README.rst, after:

.. _ble_hids_mouse_sample:

Bluetooth: Human Interface Device Service Mouse
###############################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Peripheral HIDS mouse sample demonstrates how to use the :ref:`lib_ble_service_hids` to implement a mouse input device that you can connect to your computer.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample uses the buttons on the development kit to simulate the movement of a mouse.
The four buttons simulate movement to the left, up, right, and down, respectively.
Mouse clicks are not simulated.

This sample exposes the HID GATT Service.
It uses a report map for a generic mouse.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   Simulate mouse movement to the left.

   When pairing with authentication, press this button to confirm the passkey shown in the COM listener and complete pairing with the other device.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Simulate mouse movement upwards.

   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.

   When pairing with authentication, press this button to reject the passkey shown in the COM listener to prevent pairing with the other device.

Button 2:
   Simulate mouse movement to the right.

Button 3:
   Simulate mouse movement downwards.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is initialized.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_hids_mouse/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample using a computer or a smartphone.

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, using the `Serial Terminal app`_ or |VSC|, observe that the ``BLE HIDS Mouse sample initialized`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_HIDS_MOUSE`` message is printed.
#. On your computer or mobile phone, open the Bluetooth settings and scan for advertising devices.
   Your device should be advertising as ``nRF_BM_HIDS_MOUSE``.
   If the device is not advertising, you might need to use the :guilabel:`Reset Board` option in |VSC|.
#. :guilabel:`Connect` to your device.

   After having connected, your computer or mobile phone may attempt to pair or bond with your device in order to encrypt the link.

   You may be prompted to compare or enter a passkey as part of the authentication step.
   If prompted, provide the passkey from the terminal output, or confirm that the passkey is correct by pressing **Button 0** on the kit.

   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Peer connected``.
#. Observe that the device is detected as a mouse, and you can move the mouse by pressing the buttons on the DK.
