samples/peripherals/pwm/README.rst, before:

.. _pwm_sample:

PWM
###

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The PWM sample demonstrates how to configure and use Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) with |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample initializes a PWM instance that blinks **LED 1** and **LED 3** on the device.

.. note::

  The PWM signal can be exposed only on GPIO pins that belong to the same domain as the target pin.
  For the nRF54L Series, there is only one domain which contains both PWM and GPIO: PWM20/21/22 and GPIO Port P1.
  Therefore, for these devices, only LEDs connected to P1 can work with PWM - for the nRF54L15 DK these are **LED 1** and **LED 3**.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/peripherals/pwm/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample by performing the following steps:

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Observe that the ``PWM sample started`` message is printed.
#. Observe that **LED 1** and **LED 3** are blinking.

Commit message:

samples: peripheral: align LED and button behavior across samples
Align LED and button behavior across samples to follow a consistent
and predictable convention. The goal is to make samples easier to
understand, compare, and reuse by ensuring that common actions map
to the same LEDs and buttons wherever possible. All changes were
tested and verified on hardware, and all affected READMEs were
updated to reflect the new behavior.

Peripheral samples use LED0 to indicate initialization. LED1, LED2,
and LED3 are fully sample-specific, and all buttons are defined per
sample. No shared button or LED behavior is enforced for these
samples, as their functionality varies widely.

A hardware limitation was noted while updating the PWM sample:
PWM outputs are only available on GPIO Port 1.
As a result, only LEDs connected to Port 1 can be driven using PWM.
LEDs connected to other ports (for example LED0 and LED2) cannot be
used for PWM effects. This explains why only LED1 and LED3 support
PWM breathing patterns on the affected boards.

While aligning sample behavior, several documentation gaps were
identified.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

samples/peripherals/pwm/README.rst, after:

.. _pwm_sample:

PWM
###

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The PWM sample demonstrates how to configure and use Pulse Width Modulation (PWM) with |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample initializes a PWM instance that blinks **LED 1** and **LED 3** on the device.

.. note::

  The PWM signal can be exposed only on GPIO pins that belong to the same domain as the target pin.
  For the nRF54L Series, there is only one domain which contains both PWM and GPIO: PWM20/21/22 and GPIO Port P1.
  Therefore, for these devices, only LEDs connected to P1 can work with PWM - for the nRF54L15 DK these are **LED 1** and **LED 3**.

User interface
**************

LED 0:
  Lit when the device is initialized.

LED 1:
  Breathing pattern.

LED 3:
  Breathing pattern.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/peripherals/pwm/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample by performing the following steps:

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Observe that the ``PWM sample initialized`` message is printed.
#. Observe that **LED 1** and **LED 3** have a breathing pattern.
