samples/bluetooth/ble_hrs_central/README.rst, before:

.. _ble_hrs_central_sample:

Bluetooth: Heart Rate Service Central
#####################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Heart Rate Service Central sample demonstrates how you can implement the Heart Rate profile as a client using |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s145_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s145_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s145_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s145_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s145_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s145_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

This sample scans for devices that advertise with the :ref:`lib_ble_service_hrs` UUID (0x180D) and initiates a connection when a device is found.
When a device is connected, the sample starts the service discovery procedure.
If this succeeds, the sample subscribes to the Heart Rate Measurement characteristic to receive heart rate notifications.

.. _ble_hrs_central_sample_testing:

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_hrs_central/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

This sample requires two devices to test, one running this sample and another one running the :ref:`ble_hrs_sample` sample.

Complete the following steps to test the sample:

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE HRS Central sample started`` message is printed.
#. Program the other development kit with the :ref:`ble_hrs_sample` sample and reset it.
#. Observe that the ``Scan filter match`` message is printed, followed by ``Connecting to target`` and ``Connected``.
#. Observe that the ``Heart rate service discovered.`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the device starts receiving heart rate measurement notifications.

Commit message:

samples: bluetooth: align LED and button behavior across samples
Align LED and button behavior across samples to follow a consistent
and predictable convention. The goal is to make samples easier to
understand, compare, and reuse by ensuring that common actions map to
the same LEDs and buttons wherever possible. All changes were tested
and verified on hardware, and all affected READMEs were updated to
reflect the new behavior.

For Bluetooth samples, a common LED and button layout is now used.
LED0 indicates that the device is initialized and running, while LED1
indicates an active Bluetooth connection. LED2 and LED3 are reserved
for sample‑specific functionality.

Button 0 is used for secure bonding confirmation on peripheral
(end device) samples, while on central samples it is used to disable
the allow list. Button 1 is used to reject secure bonding and delete
bonds on peripheral samples, while on central samples it disconnects
from the peer and deletes bonds. Button 2 and Button 3 are
sample‑specific.

Some samples require more than two custom interactions.
In those cases, Button 0 and Button 1 may be repurposed or extended
with additional behavior, but the overall convention is still
followed where possible.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

bluetooth

samples/bluetooth/ble_hrs_central/README.rst, after:

.. _ble_hrs_central_sample:

Bluetooth: Heart Rate Service Central
#####################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Heart Rate Service Central sample demonstrates how you can implement the Heart Rate profile as a client using |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s145_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s145_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s145_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s145_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s145_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S145
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s145_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

This sample scans for devices that advertise with the :ref:`lib_ble_service_hrs` UUID (0x180D) and initiates a connection when a device is found.
When a device is connected, the sample starts the service discovery procedure.
If this succeeds, the sample subscribes to the Heart Rate Measurement characteristic to receive heart rate notifications.

.. _ble_hrs_central_sample_testing:

User interface
**************

Button 0:
  Press to disable allow list.

Button 1:
  Press to disconnect from the connected peer device.

  Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is initialized.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_hrs_central/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

This sample requires two devices to test, one running this sample and another one running the :ref:`ble_hrs_sample` sample.

Complete the following steps to test the sample:

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE HRS Central sample initialized`` message is printed.
#. Program the other development kit with the :ref:`ble_hrs_sample` sample and reset it.
#. Observe that the ``Scan filter match`` message is printed, followed by ``Connecting to target`` and ``Connected``.
#. Observe that the ``Heart rate service discovered.`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the device starts receiving heart rate measurement notifications.
