samples/bluetooth/ble_radio_notification/README.rst, before:

.. _ble_radio_ntf_sample:

Bluetooth: Radio Notifications
##############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Radio Notification sample demonstrates how you can use the :ref:`lib_ble_radio_notification` library using |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample initializes the radio notification library and registers a handler that triggers both when the radio is enabled and when it is disabled.
The handler then toggles **LED 0** based on the current state of the radio.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_radio_notification/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample using `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ with the `Serial Terminal app`_.
Make sure that these are installed before starting the testing procedure.

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE Radio Notification sample started`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the **LED 0** blinks while the device is advertising and the radio is active.
#. Observe that the **LED 0** stops blinking when advertising stops.

Commit message:

samples: bluetooth: align LED and button behavior across samples
Align LED and button behavior across samples to follow a consistent
and predictable convention. The goal is to make samples easier to
understand, compare, and reuse by ensuring that common actions map to
the same LEDs and buttons wherever possible. All changes were tested
and verified on hardware, and all affected READMEs were updated to
reflect the new behavior.

For Bluetooth samples, a common LED and button layout is now used.
LED0 indicates that the device is initialized and running, while LED1
indicates an active Bluetooth connection. LED2 and LED3 are reserved
for sample‑specific functionality.

Button 0 is used for secure bonding confirmation on peripheral
(end device) samples, while on central samples it is used to disable
the allow list. Button 1 is used to reject secure bonding and delete
bonds on peripheral samples, while on central samples it disconnects
from the peer and deletes bonds. Button 2 and Button 3 are
sample‑specific.

Some samples require more than two custom interactions.
In those cases, Button 0 and Button 1 may be repurposed or extended
with additional behavior, but the overall convention is still
followed where possible.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

bluetooth

samples/bluetooth/ble_radio_notification/README.rst, after:

.. _ble_radio_ntf_sample:

Bluetooth: Radio Notifications
##############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Radio Notification sample demonstrates how you can use the :ref:`lib_ble_radio_notification` library using |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The sample initializes the radio notification library and registers a handler that triggers both when the radio is enabled and when it is disabled.
The handler then toggles **LED 2** based on the current state of the radio.

User interface
**************

LED 0:
  Lit when the device is initialized.

LED 1:
  Lit when a device is connected.

LED 2:
  ON when a "radio on" notification is received, OFF when a "radio off" notification is received.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_radio_notification/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample using `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ with the `Serial Terminal app`_.
Make sure that these are installed before starting the testing procedure.

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE Radio Notification sample initialized`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the **LED 2** blinks while the device is advertising and the radio is active.
#. Observe that the **LED 2** stops blinking when advertising stops.
