samples/bluetooth/ble_cgms/README.rst, before:

.. _ble_cgms_sample:

Bluetooth: Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service
################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service sample demonstrates how to implement the Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service profile using |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service (CGMS) is a service that exposes glucose and other data from a personal Continuous Glucose Monitoring sensor.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   During bonding, press the button to confirm that the passkey is correct.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Increase the simulated glucose concentration.

   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.

   During bonding, press it to reject the passkey.

Button 3:
   Decrease the simulated glucose concentration.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_cgms/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Connect the device to the computer.
#. Connect to the kit with a terminal emulator (for example, the `Serial Terminal app`_).
   Note that the kit has two UARTs, where only one will output the log.
#. Reset the kit.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``Continuous Glucose Monitoring sample started.`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the device is advertising under the default name ``nRF_BM_CGMS``.
   You can configure this name using the ``CONFIG_BLE_ADV_NAME`` Kconfig option.
   For information on how to do this, see `Configuring Kconfig`_.
#. Connect to your device using the `nRF Toolbox`_ mobile application with the :guilabel:`Continuous Glucose` service.

#. Your mobile phone should now attempt to pair with your device to encrypt the link.
   When prompted, check that the passkeys are the same before confirming by pressing **Button 0** on the kit and confirming on the mobile phone.

#. Observe that the text ``Connected`` and ``CGMS Start Session`` is printed in the COM listener.
#. Observe that you receive the simulated battery status of the kit in the mobile application.
#. Observe that you receive the CGMS records in the mobile application.
   The default time between each record is one minute.

Commit message:

samples: bluetooth: align LED and button behavior across samples
Align LED and button behavior across samples to follow a consistent
and predictable convention. The goal is to make samples easier to
understand, compare, and reuse by ensuring that common actions map to
the same LEDs and buttons wherever possible. All changes were tested
and verified on hardware, and all affected READMEs were updated to
reflect the new behavior.

For Bluetooth samples, a common LED and button layout is now used.
LED0 indicates that the device is initialized and running, while LED1
indicates an active Bluetooth connection. LED2 and LED3 are reserved
for sample‑specific functionality.

Button 0 is used for secure bonding confirmation on peripheral
(end device) samples, while on central samples it is used to disable
the allow list. Button 1 is used to reject secure bonding and delete
bonds on peripheral samples, while on central samples it disconnects
from the peer and deletes bonds. Button 2 and Button 3 are
sample‑specific.

Some samples require more than two custom interactions.
In those cases, Button 0 and Button 1 may be repurposed or extended
with additional behavior, but the overall convention is still
followed where possible.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

bluetooth

samples/bluetooth/ble_cgms/README.rst, after:

.. _ble_cgms_sample:

Bluetooth: Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service
################################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service sample demonstrates how to implement the Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service profile using |BMlong|.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The Continuous Glucose Monitoring Service (CGMS) is a service that exposes glucose and other data from a personal Continuous Glucose Monitoring sensor.

User interface
**************

Button 0:
   When pairing with authentication, press this button to confirm the passkey shown in the COM listener and complete pairing with the other device.
   See `Testing`_.

Button 1:
   Keep the button pressed while resetting the board to delete bonding information for all peers stored on the device.

   When pairing with authentication, press this button to reject the passkey shown in the COM listener to prevent pairing with the other device.

Button 2:
   Decrease the simulated glucose concentration.

Button 3:
   Increase the simulated glucose concentration.

LED 0:
   Lit when the device is initialized.

LED 1:
   Lit when a device is connected.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_cgms/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Connect the device to the computer.
#. Connect to the kit with a terminal emulator (for example, the `Serial Terminal app`_).
   Note that the kit has two UARTs, where only one will output the log.
#. Reset the kit.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``Continuous Glucose Monitoring sample initialized.`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the device is advertising under the default name ``nRF_BM_CGMS``.
   You can configure this name using the ``CONFIG_BLE_ADV_NAME`` Kconfig option.
   For information on how to do this, see `Configuring Kconfig`_.
#. Connect to your device using the `nRF Toolbox`_ mobile application with the :guilabel:`Continuous Glucose` service.

#. Your mobile phone should now attempt to pair with your device to encrypt the link.
   When prompted, check that the passkeys are the same before confirming by pressing **Button 0** on the kit and confirming on the mobile phone.

#. Observe that the text ``Connected`` and ``CGMS Start Session`` is printed in the COM listener.
#. Observe that you receive the simulated battery status of the kit in the mobile application.
#. Observe that you receive the CGMS records in the mobile application.
   The default time between each record is one minute.
