samples/peripherals/timer/README.rst, before:

.. _timer_sample:

Timer
#####

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Timer sample demonstrates how to configure and use the Bare Metal Timer (:ref:`lib_bm_timer`) library to generate both single-shot and periodic callback events to your application code.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The single-shot timer is used to sequence a series of actions (logging ``Hello``, ``world!``, and ``bye!``), while the periodic timer provides a visual indication of ongoing activity.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/peripherals/timer/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample by performing the following steps:

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Observe that the ``Timer sample started`` message is logged.
#. Observe that the ``Timers initialized`` message is logged.
#. Observe that the three words ``Hello``, ``world!``, and ``Bye!`` are logged one after another interlaced with period signs that are logged every half second.

   With the default Kconfig options of the sample, the words ``Hello``, ``world!``, and ``Bye!`` are logged after one, three, and seven seconds, respectively.

Commit message:

samples: peripheral: align LED and button behavior across samples
Align LED and button behavior across samples to follow a consistent
and predictable convention. The goal is to make samples easier to
understand, compare, and reuse by ensuring that common actions map
to the same LEDs and buttons wherever possible. All changes were
tested and verified on hardware, and all affected READMEs were
updated to reflect the new behavior.

Peripheral samples use LED0 to indicate initialization. LED1, LED2,
and LED3 are fully sample-specific, and all buttons are defined per
sample. No shared button or LED behavior is enforced for these
samples, as their functionality varies widely.

A hardware limitation was noted while updating the PWM sample:
PWM outputs are only available on GPIO Port 1.
As a result, only LEDs connected to Port 1 can be driven using PWM.
LEDs connected to other ports (for example LED0 and LED2) cannot be
used for PWM effects. This explains why only LED1 and LED3 support
PWM breathing patterns on the affected boards.

While aligning sample behavior, several documentation gaps were
identified.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

samples/peripherals/timer/README.rst, after:

.. _timer_sample:

Timer
#####

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Timer sample demonstrates how to configure and use the Bare Metal Timer (:ref:`lib_bm_timer`) library to generate both single-shot and periodic callback events to your application code.

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The single-shot timer is used to sequence a series of actions (logging ``Hello``, ``world!``, and ``bye!``), while the periodic timer provides a visual indication of ongoing activity.

User interface
**************

LED 0:
  Lit when the device is initialized.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/peripherals/timer/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample by performing the following steps:

1. Compile and program the application.
#. Observe that the ``Timer sample started`` message is logged.
#. Observe that the ``Timer sample initialized`` message is logged.
#. Observe that the three words ``Hello``, ``world!``, and ``Bye!`` are logged one after another interlaced with period signs that are logged every half second.

   With the default Kconfig options of the sample, the words ``Hello``, ``world!``, and ``Bye!`` are logged after one, three, and seven seconds, respectively.
