samples/bluetooth/ble_lbs/README.rst, before:

.. _ble_lbs_sample:

Bluetooth: LED Button Service
#############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample demonstrates how to use the LED Button Service (LBS).

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The LED Button Service (LBS) is a custom service that receives information about the state of an LED and sends notifications when a button changes its state.

You can use the sample to transmit the button state from your development kit to another device.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_lbs/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample using `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ with the `Bluetooth Low Energy app`_ and the `Serial Terminal app`_.
Make sure that these are installed before starting the testing procedure.

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE LBS sample started`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_LBS`` message is printed.
#. In nRF Connect for Desktop, scan for advertising devices.
   Your device should be advertising as ``nRF_BM_LBS``.
   If the device is not advertising, you might need to use the :guilabel:`Reset Board` option in |VSC|.
#. :guilabel:`Connect` to your device.
   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Peer connected``.
#. In nRF Connect for Desktop, go to :guilabel:`Nordic LED and Button Service` and change :guilabel:`Blinky LED state` to :guilabel:`01`.
   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Received LED ON!``.
#. Change the :guilabel:`Blinky LED state` value back to :guilabel:`00`.
   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Received LED OFF!``.

Commit message:

samples: bluetooth: align LED and button behavior across samples
Align LED and button behavior across samples to follow a consistent
and predictable convention. The goal is to make samples easier to
understand, compare, and reuse by ensuring that common actions map to
the same LEDs and buttons wherever possible. All changes were tested
and verified on hardware, and all affected READMEs were updated to
reflect the new behavior.

For Bluetooth samples, a common LED and button layout is now used.
LED0 indicates that the device is initialized and running, while LED1
indicates an active Bluetooth connection. LED2 and LED3 are reserved
for sample‑specific functionality.

Button 0 is used for secure bonding confirmation on peripheral
(end device) samples, while on central samples it is used to disable
the allow list. Button 1 is used to reject secure bonding and delete
bonds on peripheral samples, while on central samples it disconnects
from the peer and deletes bonds. Button 2 and Button 3 are
sample‑specific.

Some samples require more than two custom interactions.
In those cases, Button 0 and Button 1 may be repurposed or extended
with additional behavior, but the overall convention is still
followed where possible.

Signed-off-by: Martynas Smilingis <martynas.smilingis@nordicsemi.no>

bluetooth

samples/bluetooth/ble_lbs/README.rst, after:

.. _ble_lbs_sample:

Bluetooth: LED Button Service
#############################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This sample demonstrates how to use the LED Button Service (LBS).

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. tabs::

   .. group-tab:: Simple board variants

      The following board variants do **not** have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice

   .. group-tab:: MCUboot board variants

      The following board variants have DFU capabilities.

      .. list-table::
         :header-rows: 1

         * - Hardware platform
           - PCA
           - SoftDevice
           - Board target
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l15/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L10)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l10/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot
         * - `nRF54L15 DK`_ (emulating nRF54L05)
           - PCA10156
           - S115
           - bm_nrf54l15dk/nrf54l05/cpuapp/s115_softdevice/mcuboot

Overview
********

The LED Button Service (LBS) is a custom service that controls the state of an LED and sends notifications when a button changes its state.

You can use the sample to transmit the button state from your development kit to another device.

User interface
**************

Button 2:
  Press to send a notification on the LBS Button State characteristic.

LED 0:
  Lit when the device is initialized.

LED 1:
  Lit when a device is connected.

LED 2:
  LED controlled through the LBS LED State characteristic.

Building and running
********************

This sample can be found under :file:`samples/bluetooth/ble_lbs/` in the |BMshort| folder structure.

For details on how to create, configure, and program a sample, see :ref:`getting_started_with_the_samples`.

Testing
=======

You can test this sample using `nRF Connect for Desktop`_ with the `Bluetooth Low Energy app`_ and the `Serial Terminal app`_.
Make sure that these are installed before starting the testing procedure.

1. Compile and program the application.
#. In the Serial Terminal, observe that the ``BLE LBS sample initialized`` message is printed.
#. Observe that the ``Advertising as nRF_BM_LBS`` message is printed.
#. In nRF Connect for Desktop, scan for advertising devices.
   Your device should be advertising as ``nRF_BM_LBS``.
   If the device is not advertising, you might need to use the :guilabel:`Reset Board` option in |VSC|.
#. :guilabel:`Connect` to your device.
   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Peer connected``.
#. In nRF Connect for Desktop, go to :guilabel:`Nordic LED and Button Service` and change :guilabel:`Blinky LED state` to :guilabel:`01`.
   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Received LED ON!``.
#. Change the :guilabel:`Blinky LED state` value back to :guilabel:`00`.
   The terminal output in |VSC| indicates ``Received LED OFF!``.
